Now that you have learned how to create a repository and clone it, it's time to start using repositories to manage projects and work with collaborators. In this lesson you will learn about new git commands for publishing changes so that others can see them. You will also learn a git command for incorporating changes made by others in your local copy of a repository.

Over the course of working on a project, you will be creating a number of files containing code, results, documentation, or other information. How do you add these files to the Git version control system and make this information available to the public? In the first part of this lesson, you will learn about four git commands that allow you to do this: status, add, commit, and push.

A helpful git command is git status. If you type this in the terminal and press enter on your keyboard, the files that have been modified or added since you last updated changes on GitHub will be displayed. This is particularly helpful when you want to decide which files to stage, which is discussed in more detail later in this lesson.

You can type git status at any time in the Terminal to see what files have been modified locally that are not yet on GitHub. Before being able to do this though, first we need to move to the Terminal pane. Recall that the text at the beginning of the line is called the prompt. The Terminal prompt shows the current working directory within the Terminal. Initially, the working directory is the slash cloud slash project folder. We can see the same information by entering the p w d command. We can use the l s command to list the files and folders that are in the current working directory. We see that the first underscore project folder is the only thing present. Before working with the Git commands that will track and publish our changes, we need to change the working directory in the Terminal to be the first underscore project folder. We can do this with the c d command. Using the command c d PATH changes the working directory to the folder specified by PATH. To continue change the working directory by typing the command c d first underscore project in the prompt.

As you've just cloned a repository in the last lesson, there are likely no changes yet when you type git status. 

Now, let's really get started by creating a file within the project. Below we've created a text file containing a list of tasks. This is saved as tasks dot t x t within the first underscore project folder. This is the repository that we cloned in the previous lesson.

We will first use the git add command to tell Git that the tasks dot t x t file is to be tracked for version control. The syntax for the add command is git add tasks dot t x t. This "stages" the the specified files or folders, adding them to the list of directories and files that should be added to GitHub.  Any number of files and/or folders can be specified in this way. Additionally, while you only have a files or two to add at this point and typing them each individually is not much work, as you start work on larger projects and edit multiple files at a time, typing out each file you want to add individually will become a pain. To get around this, you can specify that you want to stage multiple files at once using git add period. This period specifies that you want to stage all new and modified files. However, this does not stage files that have been deleted. To stage modified and deleted files but to not stage new files, you would use git add minus lowercase u. Then, if you wanted to add all new, modified, or deleted files, you would use git add minus capital A. Finally, to stage any file with a particular file extension, such as all CSV files, you would use git add asterisk dot csv. The option to use git add asterisk is available. However,, if you remember back to the lesson on removing files, you were cautioned against ever using r m * because you can very easily but accidentally delete files you didn't mean to delete. The same logic works here. git add asterisk will add everything, including hidden files, and thus should be used with caution. Instead, use the other options discussed in this lesson to stage your files.

Now that we have let Git know that this file should be tracked for version control, we will actually record those changes with git commit. The commit command takes the files that we added with the add command and updates the Git version history record with these changes. When we use the commit command, we also supply a descriptive message about the changes that were made by specifying the dash m option followed by the message in quotes.

On RStudio Cloud, you'll have to verify who you are each time you try to make changes to a repository. You'll know you have to do this when you try to git commit` and you get an error that starts with: "Please tell me who you are," followed with some suggestions about using git config. When this occurs, you'll be prompted to type what you see here into the terminal. You'll type each line in as you see here but will replace the information in quotes with your GitHub account information. Note that if you're asked for your password, you should type in your GitHub password and hit Enter, but know that you will not actually see the characters show up on the screen as you type them.

We are finally ready to publish our changes to a remote repository. We've been doing work in a local copy of the repository on RStudio Cloud. This personal copy is called a local repository. To make changes available to others, there needs to be an external version of the repository accessible by others. This is called a remote repository. Our remote repository is the one available on Git Hub. To publish our changes, we use the git push command. Because we cloned this repository from Git Hub, Git automatically knows that this is the remote repository. A local repository can have multiple remotes, and it is possible to push changes to a specified remote. We will not cover this here though. After you run git push, you will see some status text and you will be prompted for your Git Hub username and password. After you enter these, the push will be complete.

While working on a project, we may have a collaborator working on files in the same repository. If they create and edit files in their own local repositories and push changes to our shared remote repository on Git Hub, we will want to incorporate their changes into our files. We can do this with the git pull command.

For example, a collaborator might have added an additional task to the tasks dot t x t file.

When we run the git pull command, the changes present in the remote repository are incorporated into our local repository. So when we open the tasks dot t x t file, we will see the additional task.
