Now that you have learned how to create a repository and clone it, it's time to start using repositories to manage projects and work with collaborators. In this lesson you will learn about new git commands for publishing changes so that others can see them. You will also learn a git command for incorporating changes made by others in your local copy of a repository.

Over the course of working on a project, you will be creating a number of files containing code, results, documentation, or other information. How do you add these files to the Git version control system and make this information available to the public? In the first part of this lesson, you will learn about three git commands that allow you to do this: add, commit, and push.

Let's start by creating a file within the project. Below we've created a text file containing a list of tasks. This is saved as tasks dot t x t within the first underscore project folder. This is the repository that we cloned in the previous lesson.

Now that we have added a file to this repository, let's put it under version control and publish these changes. First we need to move to the Terminal pane. Recall that the text at the beginning of the line is called the prompt. The Terminal prompt shows the current working directory within the Terminal. Initially, the working directory is the slash cloud slash project folder. We can see the same information by entering the p w d command. We can use the l s command to list the files and folders that are in the current working directory. We see that the first underscore project folder is the only thing present. Before working with the Git commands that will track and publish our changes, we need to change the working directory in the Terminal to be the first underscore project folder. We can do this with the c d command. Using the command c d PATH changes the working directory to the folder specified by PATH.

We will first use the git add command to tell Git that the tasks dot t x t file is to be tracked for version control. The syntax for the add command is git add tasks dot t x t. Any number of files and/or folders can be specified in this way. Now that we have let Git know that this file should be tracked for version control, we will actually record those changes with git commit. The commit command takes the files that we added with the add command and updates the Git version history record with these changes. When we use the commit command, we also supply a descriptive message about the changes that were made by specifying the dash m option followed by the message in quotes.

We are finally ready to publish our changes to a remote repository. We've been doing work in a local copy of the repository on RStudio Cloud. This personal copy is called a local repository. To make changes available to others, there needs to be an external version of the repository accessible by others. This is called a remote repository. Our remote repository is the one available on Git Hub. To publish our changes, we use the git push command. Because we cloned this repository from Git Hub, Git automatically knows that this is the remote repository. A local repository can have multiple remotes, and it is possible to push changes to a specified remote. We will not cover this here though. After you run git push, you will see some status text and you will be prompted for your Git Hub username and password. After you enter these, the push will be complete.

While working on a project, we may have a collaborator working on files in the same repository. If they create and edit files in their own local repositories and push changes to our shared remote repository on Git Hub, we will want to incorporate their changes into our files. We can do this with the git pull command.

For example, a collaborator might have added an additional task to the tasks dot t x t file.

When we run the git pull command, the changes present in the remote repository are incorporated into our local repository. So when we open the tasks dot t x t file, we will see the additional task.
